web/docs/heroku.md, before:

# Hosting and deploying to Heroku

> Note: this deployment to Heroku relies on `git` so your app will need to be committed to a `git` repository.  If you haven't done so yet, run the following commands to initialize and commit your source code to a `git` repository:

```shell
# be at the top-level of your app directory
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial version"
```

## Create and login to a Heroku account

1. Go to [heroku.com](https://heroku.com) and click on _Sign up_
2. [Download and install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI
3. Login to the Heroku CLI using `heroku login`

## Build and deploy from Git repo

1. Create an app in Heroku using `heroku create -a my-app-name`. This will create a git remote named `heroku` for deploying the app to Heroku.  It will also return the URL to where the app will run when deployed, in the form of `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com`
2. At the top-level directory of your app's source code, create a `Procfile` that includes the instruction Heroku needs to start your app and commit it to your git repository.

    ```shell
    echo "web: cd web && npm run serve" > Procfile
    git add Procfile
    git commit -m "Add start command for Heroku"
    ```

3. From the [Heroku apps dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps), select the app, select _Settings_ and add the environment variables `SHOPIFY_API_KEY`, `SHOPIFY_API_SECRET`, `HOST` and `SCOPES` to Heroku in _Config Vars_.  These can also be set using the CLI, for example:

    ```shell
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_KEY=ReplaceWithKEYFromPartnerDashboard
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_SECRET=ReplaceWithSECRETFromPartnerDashboard
    heroku config:set HOST=https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com
    heroku config:set SCOPES=write_products
    ```

    Note that these commands can be combined into a single command:

    ```shell
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_KEY=... SHOPIFY_API_SECRET=... HOST=... SCOPES=...
    ```

4. Push the app to Heroku: `git push heroku main`.  This will automatically deploy the app.

## Update URLs in Partner Dashboard and test your app

1. Update main and callback URLs in Partner Dashboard to point to new app.  The main app URL should point to `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com` and the callback URL should be `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com/api/auth/callback`
2. Open the deployed app by browsing to `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com/api/auth?shop=my-dev-shop-name.myshopify.com`

## Deploy a new version of the app

1. Update code and commit to git.  If updates were made on a branch, merge branch with `main`
2. Push `main` to Heroku: `git push heroku main` - this will automatically deploy the new version of your app.

> Heroku's dynos should restart automatically after setting the environment variables or pushing a new update from git.  If you need to restart the dynos manually, use `heroku ps:restart`.

Commit message:

Updates Heroku instructions to use docker

web/docs/heroku.md, after:

# Hosting and deploying to Heroku

> Note: this deployment to Heroku relies on `git` so your app will need to be committed to a `git` repository.  If you haven't done so yet, run the following commands to initialize and commit your source code to a `git` repository:

```shell
# be at the top-level of your app directory
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial version"
```

## Create and login to a Heroku account

1. Go to [heroku.com](https://heroku.com) and click on _Sign up_
1. [Download and install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI
1. Login to the Heroku CLI using `heroku login`

## Build and deploy from Git to a Docker container

1. Login to Heroku Container Registry: `heroku container:login`
1. Create an app in Heroku using `heroku create -a my-app-name -s container`. This will create a git remote named `heroku` for deploying the app to Heroku.  It will also return the URL to where the app will run when deployed, in the form of `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com`
1. Configure the environment variables `SHOPIFY_API_KEY`, `SHOPIFY_API_SECRET`, `HOST` and `SCOPES` for your app.  For example:

    ```shell
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_KEY=ReplaceWithKEYFromPartnerDashboard
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_SECRET=ReplaceWithSECRETFromPartnerDashboard
    heroku config:set HOST=https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com
    heroku config:set SCOPES=write_products
    ```

    Note that these commands can be combined into a single command:

    ```shell
    heroku config:set SHOPIFY_API_KEY=... SHOPIFY_API_SECRET=... HOST=... SCOPES=...
    ```

1. At the top-level directory of your app's source code, create a `heroku.yml` file with the following content:

    ```yaml
    build:
      docker:
        web: web/Dockerfile
      config:
        SHOPIFY_API_KEY: ReplaceWithKEYFromPartnerDashboard
    ```

    Commit the `heroku.yml` file to your git repository:

    ```shell
    git add heroku.yml
    git commit -m "Adds Heroku manifest"
    ```

1. Push the app to Heroku: `git push heroku main`.  This will automatically build the `docker` image and deploy the app.

## Update URLs in Partner Dashboard and test your app

1. Update main and callback URLs in Partner Dashboard to point to new app.  The main app URL should point to `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com` and the callback URL should be `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com/api/auth/callback`
1. Open the deployed app by browsing to `https://my-app-name.herokuapp.com/api/auth?shop=my-dev-shop-name.myshopify.com`

## Deploy a new version of the app

1. Update code and commit to git.  If updates were made on a branch, merge branch with `main`
1. Push `main` to Heroku: `git push heroku main` - this will automatically deploy the new version of your app.

> Heroku's dynos should restart automatically after setting the environment variables or pushing a new update from git.  If you need to restart the dynos manually, use `heroku ps:restart`.
